Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think we have a quorum. We're at 42, and we are recording so, Liliana, are there any logistics or important questions to address with the squad before we kick off our programming for today.
Lilliana Robinson: Not today. We got through pretty much all of the announcements yesterday, but as always. If there's anything please reach out to our team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool, alright great. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is like, this is one of my favorite times
Neal Sáles-Griffin: during program, where I get to lean in pretty hard and like kick things off with hopefully things that are helpful and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: given some of the comments that you all said yesterday about looking forward to jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Here we are. It's game on this is kind of my tried and true form.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Value. Add. So with that before I begin with, like the goal of today, is to essentially make sure that we're all on the same page with what it even is. You all have already been through the paces of applying this framework actively on your companies, so I don't want to reinvent the wheel, and I don't want to bore you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That being said, I think there's a few stories and perspectives about the origin of this framework, and how it came to be that I'm connected to and familiar with, that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: by and large we found beneficial to share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a couple of things that we prepared one. We'll be sharing afterwards, which is a few testimonials from some of our alumni who've found a lot of success in applying the framework. I think there's one video we might play for you all live. So you can kinda see and hear from at least one of them. One of the shorter ones, only on it, because a few, I think we're a little long and then but before even that I wanted to open up the floor to see if anybody had
Neal Sáles-Griffin: comments or questions
Neal Sáles-Griffin: about jobs to be done, anything that you wanted to clarify, anything that you want to know. I'm pretty good at operating on the fly, meaning I have hundreds and hundreds of like anecdotes, examples, slides.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: references, links. So with all of those things. I can kind of customize what I share with you all today and over the next couple of days to make sure it meets your needs for what exactly you all need support on with respect to demand side sales. So given, all of that questions, comments about the framework, how it's worked for you so far, what you're looking forward to learning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Vincent.
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: I'd love to know about how this framework applies to what I've recently heard described as founder led sales.
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: Yes, so so when you say founder, let sales. What's your understanding of what that term means. So my understanding is pretty much what sounds like you. Basically, once you reach, scale you about a dedicated sales team. But the best thing you can do is have your CEO step salesperson talking to exactly talking the Yc. Brain. I hear from my co-founder is Bill. So many people want, but equivalent is yet
Neal Sáles-Griffin: well, so here's the thing. Build something people want. But how do you know what people want. And I think when you said the Yc way, which I have a lot of respect for, by the way, like, we're actually supporters of Yc, in the sense that like spiritually like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let's go, let's all win. Let's all make founder successful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the the contrast that I provide from my perspective in program, and I don't know if this is unique to techs or just me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is a lot of the times when you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: bring on very young, low, cost individuals who are executing on a vision to build a start up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They can afford to iterate and screw things up time and time and time again, and there's no real downside
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for those of you that are further along that have higher stakes. It may be more obligations. Maybe there's a certain timetable that you need to make progress with your business and with the funds that you have.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's really valuable to do the work to get better shots on goal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So rather than kind of a scattered approach of, let's iterate. Let's build. Let's iterate. Let's build. Let's see what works there is actual work that you can do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to have a lot more certainty that the bet you make is more likely to actually tap into true demand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I intuited this as a founder in my earlier years, when I was young and I started a couple of tech companies when I was a teenager and in college.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But then over time. I realized from a lot of really smart people who I'm going to share some stories about today. That there are more formulaic and framework oriented ways to go about understanding your customer and what they would be willing to pay you for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does that help? Vincent? Okay, good. Brian.
Brian | Circle+: Greetings everyone. So I'm just curious.
Brian | Circle+: Especially in
Brian | Circle+: like, I'm contextualizing the framework. I'm a very big fan of the framework. But I'm also contextualizing it. What happens it in in situations whereby. the culture has a very big intention. Adoption, Cap, you know. So, having a conversation with them in the interview, and normally they're communicating their intentions. But what they actually do is far removed from what they actually do.
Brian | Circle+: You know what they do, what they do help me understand what you mean by that?
That's what has to be.
Brian | Circle+: Ryan. I think you're sound cut out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You have no idea what happened. But now we can hear you. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, great, yeah. So it's basically saying, what happens in communities where there's a high intention and option gap, you know. So basically, when you're having an interview with them. They're giving you their intentions. However, what they actually do is good question. That's a great question. I love that. That's an excellent question. Alright. So I promise to address that. And if I don't, you remind me at the end of this talk, but I will 100 address that question, because that is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the secret. That is exactly what we're up to here, which is like most people have customer interviews, and the I'll meet with founders right for deals and investments, and whatever at the 4 Vcs I've worked at, and so many of them go. Well, we've done hundreds of customer interviews.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'm like, so what what does that mean? Wh, what did we actually learn? What questions did you ask? What insights did you gain? So it's not about volume
Neal Sáles-Griffin: first, it's about quality reps and actually extracting the information insights you need, and the the short answer and spoiler alert, Brian, is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's not what they are saying it is at first
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you have to unpack the layers. That's what I've learned time and time again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I'll get into the rest
Lilliana Robinson: really quick. What Neil is saying is huge because we have people that come in, not any of you. But we have people for years that have applied to tech stars and told us when we give them the jobs to be done. Exercise that you all did. They say, I don't need to do these yeah, here and now submit to us like here are 100 interviews I've done. The quality is not there, so we still ask them to redo it and do it in this way, because those
Lilliana Robinson: 1012 interviews that you do in a jobs to be done, session or round are worth so much more than any of those. So it's kind of like a challenge to take away those preconceived notions that many of us have, especially if you're data driven, and I'll get more into that in the lecture.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. And and and I guess to to reaffirm that point, too. I love this conversation, by the way, so thank you all for raising your hand, asking questions and getting things started. It makes it easier to get into the content side once we get through this conversation. So but the other thing that that you know tends to come up a lot is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's nothing special about this, like we have packaging and labels for what we're teaching you. But this is accessible information, meaning a lot of people. You can read this online. You can find this stuff anywhere for the most part. But it's about applying in a particular context and for your specific situation that makes the value unique that we offer to understanding. Did I say that? Right?
Ale: Yeah, thank you. It. It goes along the same lines. So my question was regarding, we are pre product. So our product is not out there is not accessible to users, and so doing the the jobs to be done. Interviews we had to focus on. You know how people were using alternative products and sometimes alternative pros had absolutely nothing to do with us. And maybe they are not even related to technology. So it was a little bit about like what's the best approach in those situations? Because.
Ale: you know, you're trying to go through the layers like you said and understand. You know what drove their decision and what they're really pursuing, and then try to match that to our value. Prop. But my question was, you know, in those situations where you cannot really ask them about how they've been using your product.
Ale: They are they? In some cases they're telling you what they hypothesize is what they would do, and that has, you know, just the limited value, I guess. So. Are there any other tools that we can use to complement jobs to be done, or any specific approach that we need to take with the jobs to be done interviewing those cases with each company. But the short answer is that when you're pre product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one of the other techniques that you can utilize before you have customers actively using your platform to gain insights in a Jtb, like fashion is by interviewing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: competing hires. So whether that's a direct or indirect competitor we can help you identify very thoughtful experiments to understand
Neal Sáles-Griffin: someone hiring a different solution for the same job that you're trying to address
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then by going deeper to understand why they're spending money to make progress with those other tools or solutions. It will provide a lot of key insights about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what uniqueness you can bring to your product development process to address that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we got you alright, snow!
Snow Lee / Runbear: Aye. of.
Snow Lee / Runbear: So II really enjoy the just to be the interview during the the application process, and
Snow Lee / Runbear: it ha! It helped us a lot surprisingly after the after the the accepted, we started charging our product, and we even have the paying customers. But it was getting harder for me to hold the schedule. So I mean, I even reach out. Reached out to the the paying customers. They don't yeah, except the the interview request. So I it's
Snow Lee / Runbear: as they they
Snow Lee / Runbear: didn't didn't participate in interview, even paying for our product. But it's getting harder for me to get the interview. So it's a little bit out of the topic. But III wonder how I can get them better. There's a few things there, and there's a few layers of severity to address right. So on one hand, one way that I've always had success. Getting people to interview with me. Is by flattering them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're saying, Hey, thank you for being a user or customer of our platform and product. And we want to find more people like you, and to understand how to better serve you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as as a user and customer of our platform. So we wanna have a conversation with you about what your needs are, and how to find other great folks like yourself. So there's a way to like frame that conversation, that invitation, so that they're almost flatter to talk to you, and they're willing to tell you more because they feel like they're making. And they are a real difference
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on the direction of something that they've already signed up for. So that's one another level of severity, though, is that you have a sensitive product. Meaning like the context is more private. They may not wanna talk to you for a variety of reasons. It could be healthcare related, it could be finance related. So when you have situations like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or even tech related like with your business. Run bear so when you have situations like that it's helpful to provide some kind of incentive.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So sometimes you can offer you know, deeper utilization of the product in some way or a longer term commitment, or, you know, very frankly, cash.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, Amazon gift cards are these needs to a lot of interviewees with respect to jobs to be done. So there's a lot of ways to like. Ensure that you have people you can talk to. And then the last and final, like crazy tier that I've helped more later stage founders with, as of late is churn
Neal Sáles-Griffin: firing interviews, so the ones who leave? Why do they leave? Do they want to talk to you? How do you get them to talk to you. They're they're they're saying, No to you. Do they need you anymore? Do they even like you? Are they willing to have that conversation? So that's the ultimate tier of understanding like, alright, once they commit and they leave.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how do we actually get them to talk to us? So a lot of ways to go about all of that snow. But those are excellent questions, and I love that you appreciated the framework.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, Jeremy
Jeremy Banning: Yup, no, absolutely. II actually enjoyed how conducting the jobs to be done. Interviews allowed us to really ask those quit the the 5 wise like really get into the core of what's driving this customer's decisions? We learn things that we didn't expect. A lot of our assumptions were were challenged. Because we got it signed into their lifestyles and into their true pains that they may have had, and also
Jeremy Banning: there was a time where we able to steal down these this research into these clear, distinguished job statements that really framed up who our customer was. And what they were trying to accomplish with various tools.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's much more than meets the eye. Isn't there?
Jeremy Banning: Absolutely. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: love that, Antonio
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: I so like, I'll decide we we are pre-product, and
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: we really enjoy like I said, homework. I think we learned a lot from those interviews. I especially. You know, the journey and the diagram that to fill out it really forced us to understand the psychology the customer in the journey they go through to to to get to to the product.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: And I'm curious, by the way, to learn more about unpacking all these layers. So you're talking about one question I have is.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and maybe maybe we'll learn it throughout the program. If if there is additional commitments that we can expect from the customers, so before the final commitment would be will be.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: you know, pay, you know, give us their credit card to, to to buy our products. I wonder, between the interview and and get to that point if there is additional commitment that we can expect from the customer. So from these
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: test customers to to see their their willingness to to buy our products and get more certainty tours launch.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm I'm I'm I'm smirking because, like one, it just feels good to be back in the field like back doing the work and like working on jobs with a new class of companies and new problems. So just hearing you ask that question just gives me excited to to J, to jam. My answer to you is a cautionary.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here's a mistake that lots of founders make at the beginning of our techsars journey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They start doing these interviews, and some of. You have probably already done this over the application process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they get excited about the people that they're talking to, because they can tell that there's room to either upsell
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or to convert into a customer. If they aren't already. I will caution you in that we do not want to
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  disrupt
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the discovery work that we're doing on the demand side with the supply side thinking and desire for progress from a sales standpoint. So it'll be a really sensitive like bifurcation of your energy to have these interviews and do these conversations in a way that doesn't
Neal Sáles-Griffin: get distracted by the progress you can make on your business, and for the customer with what you have to offer that comes later, or at the end of the conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the answer, though to your question is, yes, of course, there are ways to enhance the offer and the deal, and the interaction you have with them. But, my
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my my ask of you is to wait either to the end or in a follow-up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: after you have those conversations to make those additional offers to them. But yes, of course it sweetens to deal because you understand them at a level that they never thought you could.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And once you get to that level of understanding, and you know exactly what they need. And you know that your product can actually deliver on that in a way that they hadn't maybe either understood or you build a new feature to address the need that you discover in your conversation with them?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's such a delightful moment. It leads to so much customer loyalty and support, and it essentially turns your early stage customers into your salesforce because they start to promote you, and they start to refer other people to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's a really really beautiful moment. But I would just caution you not to jump the gun on it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: car squad, what's up?
Burhan: Okay? So my question is, I want to take a step back very quickly, and rather than address the interview process itself. Take a look at who you're interviewing. In the first place, I think for us is we've got 3 different types of users for a platform
Burhan: with their own specific needs right. And how do you pay? Prioritize? Who to interview with Bill for? And your answer may be, okay. Whoever's paying for the product, but might not have the most need out of the product. So yeah, so it depends. Right? So I would say, whoever's paying for the product if our number one goal right now is to get our first customers, because we either revenue need
Neal Sáles-Griffin: attraction, need a fundraising parameter. We have a deadline. We need to make or whatever, if that's not the case, and if you have a little bit more time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alternative answer to what? To prioritize as far as who to interview because there's different segments. You're right. Is more about who can teach us the most about the problem we want to solve.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that is, that is another way of framing like, is it a user or customer of a competitive product?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It may not be one of our new customers or our current customers. Because we're planning to change our strategic direction. We want to understand a new segment of demand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's all types of reasons for why you would interview certain subgroups of the people that you may want to serve as customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that is again a unique
Neal Sáles-Griffin: process where there's a lot of nuance, and that nuance tends to get lost. When people
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kind of blanketly apply this framework in a way that is not as thoughtful as that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I love that you asked the question you're spot on. There's no clear objective right? Answer for who you should interview. But the more specific you get with your screening criteria and your why, the the learning questions that you have of what you actually are doing the interviews for, in the first place the more that'll be informed. Properly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll help you all with that. Yeah, that totally makes sense. Thank you. Good Christy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Th th, th. This is such a a phenomenal framework, because it kind of helps us like get deeper. Empathize with with our customers. And frankly, my co-founder, Richelle, is a much better person in doing this framework what I found just personally is is it's a little bit embarrassing when they tell me what they tell us that they
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: bought our product based on the strength of of my relationship with them. It was a little bit personal, but over time, you know we were able to kind of understand, get deeper to it. One thing that we would be helpful is, do we have more samples, or like in a B twob context cause. I know. That would help us hone our, you know, skill in doing this because it's such a phenomenal tool. I mean, it's
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: I haven't seen anything like it. And
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: The way we were able to unpack. Why, we're successful in developing this customer relationship. It's phenomenal, and we want to be able to do more of them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You say you haven't seen anything like it, and and I'm we're flattered by that that being said, I think all of you have seen something like this. Never in your life. You've reached a point where
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you have a deeper understanding or clarity of why you purchased something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or why someone you care about purchase something. You realize that there was like a deeper why than the one that was on the surface
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whenever you got to that insight, and you realize, like there was more going on than what I initially understood.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's you. Knowing what this is about, we're just adding language and like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kind of parameters and like inputs to understanding how to go about that in a more systemic way. But you all intuitively, as human beings know how to understand the deeper underlying motivations and drivers for people's decisions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So but to answer your other question with B, 2 B Liliana mentioned in the chat that we're putting together examples. That was one piece of feedback we got last time, actually, for the last program, because we had a class of founders that were primarily B 2 B,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so a lot of people initially think, oh, well, you know, in B Twob, there's no individual. So you can't have interviews. I'm like, Yeah, there's a decision maker. They're human beings who have needs. There's people who don't want to get fired. There's people who want to get promoted. There's people who want to look like they're the Savior for their company. There's new executives that step in at the sea level that wanna show that they're the the hero of the new Era for their business. And they wanna hire new cooled early stage tech companies with, you know, cheap enterprise contracts and deals that show that they're being innovative.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So like, there's all types of situations where there's human interest involved even in the B 2 B context, that we can teach you all how to get closer to an unpack. So we'll give you all those examples and help you with that.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: And just one other thing. If if there's any other coaching around.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: how we can do these interviews for our partners like our like our almost like our sales channel partner.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because maybe there's some of that nuance there, too. How we can make successful. Sure. Yeah, I love that you're already thinking through how to help, like your your basically your your your partners succeed the people who are leading to the progress for your customers. So II love that. And happy to help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. Dan.
Dan Ponomarenko | Webvizio: Yeah. Hi, have questions about practical implementation of this framework in in regards to the Mackenzie customer journey model.
Dan Ponomarenko | Webvizio: So basically, what we did with this customer interview, we covered the like part of the join you from like trigger to initial consideration set to, you know, active evaluation to the Mo. Moment and purchase.
Dan Ponomarenko | Webvizio: But is there any way to implement this framework when you try to research on the post purchasing experience and
Dan Ponomarenko | Webvizio: loyalty loop.
Dan Ponomarenko | Webvizio: you know. So can we use this framework to go further than just moment on purchase?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, you can. You can use this framework to go beyond the moment of purchase, because the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'll and I'll cover this. The core part.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That becomes important post purchase is customer success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So are we actually doing the job that they hired us for? Are we getting it done? Are the new jobs they want to hire us for? Are they gonna rehire us so? That I will if I don't address that Dan, and and what I'm gonna share you let me know. But that's something I plan to go much deeper on. And it's a sniper question. I love it.
Dan Ponomarenko | Webvizio: Thank you, David.
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yeah, I'd love to, I guess, learn a bit more about how we identify what should be the core foundation of our our value. Prop versus versus additional features when it comes to talking to these people. And so we're pre product. And still
David Akinyemi (he/him): trying to hone in on that, we're solving the right problem. And as new problems come up. A lot of them are kind of clustered in different areas and different spaces. We really wanna make sure we're solving like
David Akinyemi (he/him): the core value, probably not necessarily building on additional features that that may help a subset, but not necessarily everyone. So hoping to learn more about that. Well, yes, one quick comment on the last thing you said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We definitely don't want to help everyone right away. So you're still going to have to make trade offs and focus on a subgroup to make disproportionately successful before you expand
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one of the trips that one of the things that trip up founders early on is like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know all y'all want to serve millions of people. I know you want to make millions of dollars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We all want that, but if we try too soon to spin a narrative that we have that figured out. And we know who's gonna pay us all that money. And who's gonna all those millions of people and we're gonna come from. We're kind of fooling ourselves.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it was like a little bit of a trick question for me to ask each of you how you become a billion dollar company before I made the. You know, the final offer to have you all join, because it's like, the short answer is, we don't know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You have a guess. You have a thought process for what you think will work, and we'll help you with that. But yeah, David, II got you on that. That's not a problem. And that's an excellent question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Wow! That was awesome. We just took 20 min and burned through a dozen questions, and I'm couldn't be more
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like happy about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we have 2 quick founder stories that we want to share. We've never done this before. So bear with us hopefully. This is helpful
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for you all to hear from companies that literally just applied this framework and went through our program last, and had real stories to share about what was beneficial, and addressing skepticism going into it as well. Is this a good use of my time I'm here to fundraise. I just got in the text, how do I spend a hundred 20 K. Properly? I'm trying to sell? Why do you want me to slow down and like talk to people instead.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So hopefully they address some of that. So indie is the CEO of perform view. They
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have been so steadfast at iterating on their progress. Throughout our program experience, however.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: their business scares me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Indie's approach to providing art to directly compete with Netflix, as they tend to say in their tagline on the website.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  is still something that remains to be seen to me, as like we can succeed with that branding and strategy. However.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the amount of traction interests and fundraising progress that's already been made since Demo Day for Nd has been impressive.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Naji and I are actively advising indie on, you know, price round versus revertible note, and all these other cool details, so that all being said, here is a perspective from Indie, and then we'll follow up with another founder.
Lilliana Robinson: and like for no Sophia or Naji, can you put the perform view link in the chat. So people can see it. So we're giving a B to C example first, and then we have a B to B, but they filmed a video just for you.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's see.
Lilliana Robinson: could you hear that?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think the sound may not be shared.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, let's try. And
Lilliana Robinson: we're gonna play them
1.2 5.
Hey, guys! Indy Sanders here founder and CEO of Performview perform view was just in Techstar's last Oakland cohort, so was in there with the team having a lot of fun really excited for everything that's ahead of you here. But the team asked me to do a little bit of a summary on the value I found from the jobs to be done. Process I think to be transparent when I first went into it, as many of you may be sitting there thinking.
hold on. I've done a lot of customer interviews before. Why do I need to do more now in this entirely new format. I feel like I've got a grip on on everything, and I'm just trying to build and grow but I was encouraged to turn my focus into the process, and it ended up being such a valuable experience. So for us, the main learning, outcome or learning objective was, why do people sign up to our platform. So perform viewers are. It's like Netflix for video art. Essentially. So, why do people sign up? What are they doing about it? And how can we use that insight? The learnings we got from that to then bring more people into the platform as customers?
It was a pretty awesome experience. I think we only got a a handful of interviews. We focused on interviewing our actual customers and learning about the back story, towards how they found us. What made them make that purchase? What was the emotion behind their engagement with our product? And what we ended up finding is a lot more emotional reasons for the purchase itself, we had no idea towards it, and we then took all of that insight, and reflected on our landing page, which is
our main source of first or second step in the funnel alongside our social messaging and our social media strategy. And we completely redid it, based on those insights based on the emotive feedback we got from those customer interviews. And as a result, we actually, after redesigning, it wasn't really a design change more. So a messaging and language change. We saw our landing page to sign up page conversion rate go from 4% to 36% between November and December. So that's like a 32% jump up. And it's been sustained at that
point ever since. And I'm 100% certain it's because we have a better understanding of what that motive trigger in our customers when they go to that sign up page. Sorry that landing page is going to be. So. We're hitting it on the spot before they have to think for themselves, and that's helping us make the sale. So I think I'd really encourage everyone to go into the Jtvd process with an open mind. Try and work out what that pinpoint is, and just be critical on yourself around. How much am I actually interpreting facts versus using emotional insights
behind the purchase to make my decisions on how I bring people in, or how I structure my sales. Call so happy to answer any questions directly. If anyone wants to reach out to me, the team can can link you up. But if not, good luck to you all
Neal Sáles-Griffin: great, and then we'll follow up right now. With Nala himena does work on the Bdb side to help larger organizations. II would like to think companies like techstars get better insights about how to retain their talent and support. their employees.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So let's get himena's going.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, give me 1 s.
Lilliana Robinson: This can be
Lilliana Robinson: but we can also pop in these
Lilliana Robinson: email in the chat.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, no. I think I think I'm gonna need you to share it. I can't get out of Eddie's video
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. I got you. I can get this done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Here we go.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Please hold
Neal Sáles-Griffin: share.
Lilliana Robinson: and I was just putting out 1.2 5.
Alright.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me know if this works.
Lilliana Robinson: So Hi, everyone. This is Kimena from Nala. I would say, there's 3 things that like very specific that I got from doing jobs to be done. The first thing was we were able to relate, identify the true value our customers had with Nala. And because of that we actually increased our prices by 25%. And every single company that's part of like our desired target. They not always said Yes, by day renew for the whole 2024,
so we would have never been able to do that. And if we hadn't had absolute certainty that they just love their product. The second thing is that it helped us improve our marketing and sales effort. So as a startup, I'm I'm the founder that's doing founderled sales. So anything from marketing like our website, Linkedin or the sales, it's it's basically me. So really understanding what to say in any marketing initiative.
like focusing on what are the struggling moments? What are the benefits that Nala provides for companies that use us and then focusing on the sales process in explaining how Nala works, really tackling those
potential frictions or fears or things that we know we needed our clients to feel safe in order for them to make progress. and last, but not least. I would say it. It also helped us to make decision in terms of a roadmap.
because in our case we really discovered that what they truly truly value and what was unique about Nana was how we were getting actionable data in order for them to make decisions around talent management. So it was not necessarily other things we thought they were looking, that we needed to add in a roadmap, because our competitors had. It was this very specific thing that we were doing very well. That was what caught their attention. In the first place, that's how they got the Cfo. To say yes to the budget that was required, and that was. And they were looking for that because that was going to help them with the pain. They were going like the struggling moment.
And then finally, like, whenever I'm selling right now and again, I'm on B twob. Enterprise. So it's a little different for B Twoc. Whenever I have, like a first, like a discovery call, thanks to jobs to be done, I have a completely clear understanding on where, in the progress journey they're in. So I know what it is that I need to give them in order to help them make progress in their own state, instead of me treating every single lead at the same time at the same piece, giving them exactly the same process. So
it sounds like more work. But it's not. It's actually it's it's made us more efficient and effective. And and provided a lot of clarity on different decisions we're making on a daily basis.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So you've heard from our founders. I'm ready to jam. I'm ready to get into my my talk but I will preface it with one final thing, which is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you can interrupt. You can drop questions if they're relevant to address in the moment. I will otherwise do. Do your best to drop them in, so that we can go through and make sure we address them all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I might go. I would love to cover more ground, so that we have more time to do real practice in the next couple of sessions we have after this. So if I can get through as much of this content as possible. Now, great cause, then we can get real, and I can demonstrate examples. Do live interviews with you. I'll show you what that looks like, and maybe even use some of you all in the room as as a test subjects for the techniques. So that's always fun.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So I'm gonna go ahead and jump in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And, Lilian, I think you wanted to say something about our credentials and teaching this framework.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, just that! It's really. I find it really helpful to understand that this is something that we also teach kind of at the same time as teaching at textiles to undergraduates and business students at Northwestern. So we kind of change the lecture a little bit to be more applicable to you guys who are actively working on businesses and have been for some time.
Lilliana Robinson: But it's the same content. So if you can kind of put yourself in a student context for this. I think it. It makes it a lot easier to understand almost like a class, because Neil and I are.
Lilliana Robinson: you know, essentially teachers, even though we work here at textiles. And we're also investors. That's it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let's see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: said my screen sharing was pause. Let me do this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm gonna start that. And then, yeah, just very small.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me fix it.
1 s.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one more. Try. Sorry about that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When I do presentation, I needed to share the whole screen.
Right? Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that working?
Lilliana Robinson: It's still the same size. But everyone can go to view options and make it bigger. If you'd like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: weird, it says, my screen sharing is pause, and I'm not sure why
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm sorry about that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That doesn't make a difference, does it?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hmm.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay.
Lilliana Robinson: we can go with this small, everyone who wants it bigger. Can I just do it like this? Can I do it like this? And is this, okay, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay, I'll just. I'll just do it this way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So go explain. Jtb, and dig deeper into why people buy you get that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, I said, you can interrupt me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I wanted to share a few quotes, because you all are going to go through mentor madness, and, as you know with mentor madness.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're gonna meet a lot of people who have a lot of perspectives on your business, and a lot of founders tend to come out of that quite raw. So here are the most consistent
Neal Sáles-Griffin: statements that we get from every mentored madness roundup of feedback that we receive.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: use storytelling of current customers experiences to help sell the product. This is feedback to us about our founders. Start giving me stories about the customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't chase your customers, understand your customers focus less on sales till you know your customers stop building out technology, focus on the business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: stop thinking of the company as technology, start thinking about it as a problem you're solving, too. Obsessed with product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hit the brakes on tech dev sharpen the story. They screen jobs to be done. So it got to the point where people realize, like what we're teaching and where the founders are at and what they need to do. So so you all know when I first started at techstars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I wasn't teaching this framework as overtly as I am for you right now. Nor was I incorporating it into the application process. I was doing what I saw everyone else doing at tech stars and everywhere else. I was interviewing the founders, asking them tough questions, deciding if I like their business, and if I like them, and then investing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: instead, I realized that the people who I helped the most are the people who resonate with this framework as being a way to better understand the people that you want to help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you think that you can build tech and just figure out who you're building it, for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That can work. I'm just not good at teaching you how to do that. I'm good at this. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's a few examples of companies. I like to highlight that have seen a disproportionate amount of success over the past 4 years. And there's 2 kind of contrasting examples that I love sharing one is real crafter. You may meet these co-founders at some point but Sam and Sarah are Co. Founders of this company. Sam was a composer himself for the video game nerds in the world. He was the composer for the original score of the game mass effect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that is one of the most epic sci fi video game franchises of all time. So I totally fan void out as a gamer but Sam's a really humble founder. He's the first one of the first companies I ever invested in, and he's thriving with this business in a way that's a little different than what you would expect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They came into my program at like 4 Kmr. They have like a monthly product that you know, a lot of musicians sign up to use. They've over the past 4 years stumbled into like, I think, 35 k. Almost 40 Kmr.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we still are struggling to like pinpoint. How they've consistently grown their sales so slowly over time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're, you know, they've had contacts from spotify, and they work with the you know, Berkeley School of music and other university partnerships, and you know, music company tech companies that are exploring, working with them. But they haven't quite decided to turn on the venture spigot quite yet, and raise capital. So they're in in one end of the spectrum for me as an outcome.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The other end is nutrense.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they were also in the first class. So Liliana, Sophie, and others on the call know them well. They actually now come back and do workshops for us for our programs and help our founders. So you'll meet one or 2 of the Co. Founders of this company at some point. Let me tell you a little bit about them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So nutr since came into techs pretty much almost pre revenue, almost pre-product, and they provide continuous, glucose monitors to help people better understand their blood, glucose, and health when it comes to all of their daily and bodily activities.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think by the end of program they reached like 20 K. Rr.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and confidentially, I know this is being recorded. But please keep it in the family. I think they're
Neal Sáles-Griffin: their monthly recurring revenue right now is around. Is it like 3 million? It's 4, yeah, 4. So they make like, 4 million a month right now. And they just raise their, they raise their series. A, and I think they'll be raising their series. B. They're doing quite well. It's it's one of the shining examples I have of a company that I've seen find a lot of success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We didn't have as much to do it as you would think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when they were in program. They were so focused on sales. It was hard to get them to focus on a lot of the things that we're talking about here. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they ended up realizing the benefit of this jobs to be done framework post program and ended up hiring some of the experts. I'm going to introduce you to like the gentleman who did the mattress interview Bob Mesta
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to actually actively work on them, you know, on a consulting project for their company to help them figure out the demand side when they plateaued with their sales and hit ceilings and walls with respect to growth.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But they kept going, and now they come back and talk about both that and how they fundraise, and how they do a bunch of other cool stuff. So all that being said, couple of great examples of founders that I've directly invested in, who I know well and personally who we taught this framework to have found success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's the why.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And lastly, here. Don't fret if, when I speed up right now with the story I will tell, and the framework I introduce you all to again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have this templated out very, very thoughtfully, step by step. so you will be able to follow what we're going to cover quickly here, at whatever pace you see fit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Once we we finish going through it. So we have all of those recipes and formulas built out for you to know exactly what steps to take to do this proper.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This list that you're looking at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't believe exists online like, I don't think you can Google to find you know this like these steps in this way? So I'm I'm glad it exists, and I'm looking forward to one day, maybe making something a little bit more publicly available. I'm in talks with Bob Mesta, for example, and writing a book about how to apply jobs to be done more directly to startups. So we'll see how that goes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Now let's get to the fun part.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: actually doing the work. So defining the problem, this is the question, I get a lot as a as an investor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I interrupt people because they always try to tell me about their solution, and I stop them. And I say, Hey, tell me a story that exemplifies the problem yourself, because you're talking to me about what features your business has, and that's irrelevant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Before I actually know who we're who we're here to help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So whether you're seeking investors. new customers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: trying to figure out what to build in your product. Next, understanding the progress of your users and customers, and what their desired outcomes are is the most important thing. So we could all nod our heads and all agree. Cause this is all like easy things to say, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the more time has gone on, the more true these words have become for me, and I hope that becomes the same for you. So the basic premise of jobs to be done, which you all know, is people don't buy products or services. They hire them to help them make progress in their life.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the age-old analogy. the one that came from when this framework first came about in the early 90 s. Is that people don't want to buy a quarter and strill. What do they want?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Feel free to unmute? Speak up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they want the whole. Yeah. But now, Jeremy, let's keep it going. Stay off mute.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do they want the hole for?
Jeremy Banning: That's a good question.
Naji B.: They want to hang a photo.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, that's exactly right. So I wanted to hang a photo because I was a totally strange human being and decided to teach myself programming and software engineering and computer science after graduating, and when I did that I went mad and put like hundreds of posters all over my house to motivate me to do the one of the hardest things. So I had these motivational posters on the wall with my drill in my hole.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But why do you think I put those motivational posters up.
Malc - Xsauce: perhaps reminder to yourself, right? Are you commitment?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, yeah. I was trying to be focused. I was trying to get shit done. Now, that being said, y'all
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at some point you have to call it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because if you ask why, too many times you get to an existential crisis and you start questioning the nature of the universe. Why am I here? What is the point of anything? Does anything matter? The sun's gonna explode, I understand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I say all that to say. the quarter inch drill to the quarter inch, hole.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the quarter in toll, to hang a picture, the picture to be motivated, to learn programming.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The list goes on and on, but there are layers to understanding the depth of someone's underlying motivation. So with that being said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: has anyone ever heard of the 5 wise. This is like a standard like business, kind of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: tool 5. Why's if you ask why, once
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you'll learn something, but you won't learn what's really going on. If you ask why, 5 times you'll get a lot closer to the truth. Why? Is actually a far less effective question in the context of jobs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Then when
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'll tell you more about why later. But just keep that in mind.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So progress is someone's trying to make. There's someone
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they are in a place. There's this is one of your customers, whether they're B to B or B to C, they're one of your customers, and they're trying to get somewhere that they're not, and that's why they would spend money to hire you to help them make that progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So how do we make sense of that. Well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that struggling moment that they're facing, and a desire to be somewhere, that they're not. They're trying to figure out in that circumstance what progress they need to make to do so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we have to humble ourselves as founders that have products and solutions and remind ourselves that we are very simply
Neal Sáles-Griffin: trying to help them get across as a bridge. So a job
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is just understanding the why the causality underneath that explains the choice of someone needs to make to make that progress. And you're gonna hear me say, progress. Probably too much like you're gonna get tired of hearing Neil say, progress. What progress are we trying to make when we start a meeting? What does Progress look like here? What does success look like here?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You'll you'll you'll you'll decide if you if you vibe with that language or not. But I just I can't stop using those words because of the depth of their meaning for us.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so that bridge, that capability, that's you. That's your entire business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So hopefully, this is a very humbling moment for all of us. We aren't the greatest thing, and the most important things in the world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have to make sure our customers feel like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they're the most important thing in the world to us, and how we are going to serve.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just remember that we are the bridge to the customers progress. and to the extent that we can embody that and how we operate. you will develop a lot of of customer loyalty and better understanding of how to serve them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the circumstance language is delivered as well. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a job can only be defined and a new solution developed or devised relative to the specific context in which it arises. So this is a bunch of fancy way, like language around.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: saying that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you start off building things for a very bespoke unique group of people, and over time you will iterate and learn what becomes mass appealing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but in the beginning and the early stages for most, if not all of you. You're not at a stage now where you're trying to figure out massive people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we we shouldn't be spending our techstars money on running ad campaigns until we have it dialed in. And we actually know how to properly spend money
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to acquire the customers that we truly want to serve.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Many of you are likely getting ahead of yourselves right now with how you're spending your dollars to have other people sell on your behalf, or other tools and systems selling your behalf without having a better grasp of who you should be selling to in the first place.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So symptoms, problems and causes. So a lot of folks tend to react
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to the symptoms of a customer's problem without understanding the underlying root causes. And this framework is meant to help you understand that. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you all watch this video correct the milkshake video with clay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, I'm seeing all the head nods. Love that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One of the most fascinating things about that fast food chain he was talking about with the milkshakes. Does anybody know what
Neal Sáles-Griffin: franchise he was doing business with to help invent this framework in that story?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anybody want to guess?
Valeria Brenner: Was it? Yeah, she got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sorry, Valeria. What'd you say I was Gonna say, was it Chick-fil-a or Mcdonald's? It was Mcdonalds.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It was Mcdonald's. So half of all milkshakes are being purchased before 80'clock in the morning. and they didn't know why
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that blew my mind when I first saw this video and the fact that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and there, there! It's 4 min long or 5 min long be
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the nuance in how Professor Christensen talks about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: their approach is so dense. I'm telling you, if you go back and watch it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he'll say things like in language that they could understand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We asked, or we would go and confront these people in the drive through and talk to them. So he kind of casually tells the story about how he spoke to people, about, why they were buying milkshakes and figured it out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The level of of expertise required to be such an effective interviewer. Where you do a few dozen interviews at a Mcdonald's, and you're able to unpack something that the company itself couldn't figure out what the data that they had access to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that was so impressive to me, and it was an early hint that I was on to something by wanting to learn more about how to go about understanding customers more effectively with this technique.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you all may know clay, not from jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but from coining the term disruptive.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So whenever people talk about disrupt and how it's like cliche, or you know it's a silicon valley thing, or we're disrupting this or you're being disruptive. Keep literally point the term in the business context by writing this book called the innovators dilemma. I believe it was in the eighties when he first started writing it. Maybe it came out in the nineties. 80, something like that. But it's a classic business book. And I couldn't recommend it more for the true.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: deep
Neal Sáles-Griffin: old school business nerds in the room. So for interview that really want to understand, like the origins of like the emergence of technical innovation in America especially, you know, in the, you know, eighties and nineties, there are so many great case studies here where he talks about how competing startups would go head on with Ibm and other. You know companies that of that size, and how they went about that and the different forms of innovation that exist. So when people say they're being innovative, I usually go. What do you mean?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What does that actually mean? Cause? Do you understand the concept of innovation and how it's applied? And then what the context on? Because disruptive innovation is different than market creating innovation which is different than sustainable innovations. And there's different phases to understand that as you grow your business, that I would encourage you all to learn more about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the other book, though that Liliana loves, I know, because she was a student in my class, and now she teaches it with me but I don't have people read this book anymore, because it's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: usually too dense. And there's there's too much
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to unpack for a lot of folks, and there's a lot of academic rigor associated with it. But the book's called Competing against luck.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's named Nat for a very, very important and deliberate reason. But the notion here is that a lot of the times many of you all with your businesses so far likely shrugged your shoulders at 1 point, and you didn't know why
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a customer behaved a certain way, or you use your intuition to figure out what to build, or who your customer was, or you made an inference from a conversation you had with the customer about what they meant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you were right
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in making any of those assumptions a lot of the times. Many of us would attribute that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to this thing we call luck.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the labeling of this book is really about like, no, there's a way to actually know
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you don't just have to be lucky with your insights and with your realizations about how this works. We can teach you and go about a way to literally create opportunities for those insights to happen
Lilliana Robinson: so Lily on. If you want to say anything more about it's true that we don't have the undergrads read it anymore. But there's one exception, which is our Mba students at Kellogg. So if you yourself feel that you are very much interested in it. Case studies. Kind of a more traditional academic way of understanding jobs to be done. There are a lot of enterprise examples here. So a lot of people who are B Twob really benefit. But
Lilliana Robinson: even if you're not, if that's how your brain works, and you would benefit from that, I highly highly recommend purchasing it, because it goes along with everything that we're talking about here, but in a much broader like scheme.
Lilliana Robinson: the way that Neil and I teach. It is very unique in that we are applying it to startups. So a lot of people don't know this because it is widely applied to startups now, but it just started out as an enterprise
consultant solution.
Lilliana Robinson: This is a very new.
Lilliana Robinson: maybe, like one decade old venture into applying jobs to be done into startups, and Neil has been at the head of that along with Bob Besta, who he's gonna talk about, who's our dear friend? And this is a great moment to check in really quickly and say something that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think needs to be said
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one of my colleagues, Matt Koslov, managing director in La he and I talk a lot. I look up to him. I've learned a lot from him as an Md.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He starts off his program by telling his founders techstars isn't school.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're here to do business and build businesses and get things done. I'm not here to lecture at you and have you do homework and things like that, Antonio. I've heard you refer to this work as homework. I know a lot of people refer to it as homework. I want you all to know
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this. if if you see it as homework. all love.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: However, what you should see this as a better way to understand the people who are going to be funding your future progress as your customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And if you don't see that value, and this feels more like you're in school. I apologize for that. Let me know ways that I can reframe it. But what we do in the university context is fundamentally different than what we're doing at techstars. I'm telling you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, it's different to sit in a classroom, learn this stuff and think theoretically about how to apply it. It's a completely different beast to learn a literal framework, apply it and make more money because of it, and increase your prices and see that reflected your financial model and actually raise venture capital because of these new insights that you have. That's real.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And that's what those are the results that we expect and and and can facilitate here. So I'll say that to say
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm playing to my strengths in that I do know how to teach certain things in ways that allow founders to have new skills.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not
Neal Sáles-Griffin: only going to help you grow your business, but I'm also gonna empower you all with very powerful tools and frameworks that will help you all scale your businesses over time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's my view on programming and content in a tech stars context. But I just thought y'all should hear that from me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool alright. So now we're getting to, I think, where Dan was asking me about where
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what happens after the purchase. So you all learn this, timeline. You all filled this out. But how well do we understand it? So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: strangely enough, most of the time people are doing their customer interviews around this phase right here. the buying and the deciding. This is where most of people, when they do, customer interviews, are getting insights.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we're here to tell you that there's so many other things that happen leading up to that moment that you didn't initially imagine. And I know y'all know this because you listen to the mattress interview at least once, if not multiple times.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So beyond the mattress interview there's plenty of B 2 B examples, as well of the same journey, of those struggling moments where there's going to be a multitude of events that go from a first thought to active, from passive to active looking, and then fully making a decision and going back through this cycle over and over again. So we'll help each of you all model this out for your respective businesses.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: also
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the forces diagram. So between the timeline and this forces, these are your 2 main tools. If there's only 2 things that you all take away
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from all this talking at you that I'm doing right now. It's these 2 slides. It's the timeline and the forces.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Everything stems from these 2 resources with respect to what we're trying to help, you understand. So if we understand progress over time when I'm doing a jobs to be done. Interview. I have this timeline in front of me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I am talking to the people about their journey, and I'm filling in the events as I go
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my job as I do. The interview is essentially a video game where I'm filling in the chain of events leading up to the moment of purchase, and thereafter, and how success is going.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So each of you, as you do your next round of jobs to be done interviews and you will. That's what I'll be expecting you to fill out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So before I move on to the forces.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Are there any questions about this timeline
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or comments?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Nelson.
Nelson | Afford Health: yeah, do? Does this require? Having a product for sale? In order to be able to
Nelson | Afford Health: understand some of these early trigger events?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great question, Nelson, and the answer is, no. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you don't have a product for sale.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: someone is probably trying to make progress outside of you. Right? They're hiring something else.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do I have that right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what I would do if I were you. This is very simple. So you and I should talk more directly about what this looks like in a nuanced way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would go find people who've hired alternative solutions than what you plan to offer and understand what they're hiring those solutions for
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what led them down this journey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I love doing competitive product interviews. I love talking to people who choose something else. So, for example, one thing I'm doing right now is, I'm actually interviewing founders
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who get into Y combinator and tech stars
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and choose one or the other to understand why, that's how I'm applying the jobs to be done. Framework for my job?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because why would a founder choose Niels Oakland, or San Francisco program
Neal Sáles-Griffin: over y combinator? Would they even?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And what would be the context, and what value would I need to provide for that? To be true?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's an example for me of like a competing, you know. Example.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: does that answer your question, Nelson.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, cool. J, lo.
JLoh @ Travaras: Hi, similar question, but slightly different.
JLoh @ Travaras: so we are working on sustainability and travel. And obviously, that's not really that doesn't fully exist. And obviously, there's a lot of travel incumbents like expedia and booking where people can choose these alternatives. But I'm curious if it if there's
JLoh @ Travaras: if it makes sense to interview a customer that might already be adopting sustainable practices in their everyday life, like interviewing someone who owns a Tesla or shops at whole foods or uses Ridwell or something like in the sustainability space in terms of their consumer purchasing behavior.
JLoh @ Travaras: but not but not necessarily in the same industry.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Just to understand their thought process on these changes or the forces of progress interesting. So what you're saying is fascinating because II jump back here
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because I'm trying to understand what the examples you just provided, what the struggling moment is. because what you're describing sounds like people who have characteristics of maybe what might be appropriate for who you think you want to serve?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who among them actually is experiencing a struggling moment that would lead them to want to make a purchase.
JLoh @ Travaras: Right? So I guess, like the most
JLoh @ Travaras: tangible example would be Ridwell. So every every city has recycling services, but people that want to recycle
JLoh @ Travaras: the things that just aren't recyclable that end up in the trash anyways
JLoh @ Travaras: end up paying a premium to use a service called good. Well, to be able to recycle their batteries and clam shells, and whatever it might be.
JLoh @ Travaras: and so their struggling moment, maybe
JLoh @ Travaras: like, is a similar thought process like man, I really wanna recycle, I still wanna do really good. But at the end of the day there's not really good options out there.
JLoh @ Travaras: And so then they that.
JLoh @ Travaras: and they're struggling moment. They end up paying a monthly subscription for Ridwell
JLoh @ Travaras: in the same way that, like for people that are traveling and want to travel more sustainably. since it doesn't really exist yet. Then, finding that customer is somewhat difficult.
JLoh @ Travaras: I guess so. It's like pre-product. Doesn't it really exist?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We can help you with this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, we can help you with this like, it's it's a longer answer than probably what I should respond with right now. But, like, I have a lot of thoughts based on what you just said. And the the short answer is that we have to go way more narrow than how you're talking. Yeah, that's my my instinct right now is like, we gotta zoom in real deep
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause. You start small. And when you start small and narrow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's way easier to abstract in the other way around. If you start an abstract with these characteristics of Tesla or the shop or those kind of things. It's it's too amorphous for us to have true insights about those early stage customers that you want to acquire.
JLoh @ Travaras: But we'll get there, we'll get there. I will definitely work with you, hands on on that. So great question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Thank Kevin.
Kevin: Yeah, hey, Neil? So one of the things that my co-founder, Medica and I we've been struggling with in the jobs to be done is, how do we make the determination
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on who to focus on. And I asked that because we're B 2 B to C, yeah, so who do we focus towards the business, the restaurants or the consumers. And so that's a very tricky thing that we've been struggling with. And if we should be applying it to both, yeah. So Burhan and the squad and the car asked about this? I think a little earlier in a different way. But my question to you, Kevin, is, What are your needs like? Are we? What are we trying to get done? Are we trying to earn revenue, or we trying to figure out like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like, what don't we know that we're trying to know.
Kevin: So it's sort of a 2 edge sword. So we found that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: selling to the restaurants for us is pretty easy cause our product kind of doesn't exist out there. So it's been. That's risky.
Kevin: It's risky.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because if because if it's if you're saying it's easy now, and the product doesn't exist as soon as you start to get bigger other people gonna go. Oh, we like that, too. We'll take it
Kevin: right? Exactly. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so there's that portion of it. So right now, at this moment, in time it's easy, but yes, it will, that will trust me.
Kevin: The The other part is that
Kevin: the consumers on that side.
Kevin: so getting to the restaurants. But I was saying, is that right now is easy to do? But then the sales actually getting the consumers to actually buy the product. We'll find that we could have, let's say, 100 different restaurants. But then, generating the actual consumer sales, that's a little more tricky. And it's tricky because sometimes right now for what we have, because it's very innovative. The mindset is not quite there yet.
Kevin: We're slowly getting that mind set out to the consumer to sort of adapt this, but it's not there yet, so it may be a thing where, you know I might have answered my own question, even though with the restaurants it's easy to get it at this stage to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Try to get it to the consumer. So so so a few things here and and I'll keep going. But you're asking you all are asking fantastic questions, so keep them coming. This is the best use of our time. In my opinion. Cause everyone here can learn from each other and your respective situations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Ryan Singer, another friend of mine, who I will introduce more about him later, when we enter product development. Content and work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  He said this to me one day, he he goes, who can teach us most about the problem, who can teach us the most about the problem?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the the problem that we wanna solve. And when I heard him say that this is like over 10 years ago. I never forgot it, because, on one hand, my default answer to most people when it comes to who to choose between B to B+B, to C or B to B, to C is, who's gonna pay me? Whoever's paying me. I'm trying to know them, because that's where I gotta start. If they're not willing to pay. I can't make progress in any other way. So that's a very simple rule of thumb that I still believe in. However.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there is an alternative, and that is, if either the B or the C in your equation, Kevin
Neal Sáles-Griffin: will mean more to you in the near term about what you end up building and how you execute your next phase.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: For example, if your goal is to raise venture capital, and you have a certain set of institutional Vcs that have a certain expectation for the strategic direction of your business, based on the limited conversations you've had with them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they set an Excalibur test for you like a goal like, Okay, great. You got in a text ours. If you hit these metrics, or get this done or explore this space, and can prove to us that there's a there. Then we're interested. Moving forward and investing will be your lead investor and write you a 500 k. Check.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That is a worthy cause to maybe divert from. Who pays me now to who will teach me the most about solving the bigger 1 billion dollar problem down the road.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? That's just one very simple example. There's a lot of more nuanced strategic questions that you can ask. I will spin up a jobs to be done. Interview for the smallest of things, like, if I want to test like cert a subset of a feature within a product or a new business concept.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I will do a whole jobs to be done. Process that takes one to 2 weeks to get done once you're good at it. Just for that understanding in one domain without effect impacting the entire business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's where you can kind of pull in different situations. But the short answer of it, Kevin, is that it depends, and I will work with you on a very direct custom. Answer to your situation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Perfect snow.
Snow Lee / Runbear: I'm curious about if it makes sense to conduct the interview with the people who's in the middle of the timeline. So just who just decide to purchase.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What do you think? I'm gonna say?
Snow Lee / Runbear: So I'd like to have the interview to to understand that. But actually, there are some questions that I cannot ask.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, I'm gonna say something, and and you will have to forgive me. for please forgive my language. But it's something that someone taught to me. Bitchin ain't switching. So that's what I heard Bob taught me this but basically what that means is that when someone's struggling with the problem, but they haven't taken action to change.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're not going to learn nearly as much as the person who ends up switching
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? So what you want to study is the actual purpose of of someone saying yes or no to something like a hard decision
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like the switch moment is the key.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's where you're gonna find. Actually, I'm gonna skip ahead a slide. That's the energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is actually a part of my lecture right here. So the energy comes at the moment of the switch.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: People will complain all day long about what they don't like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but they still have to be the customer sometimes that's good, sometimes it's bad. right? It's bad in the context of Comcast. Anybody, a customer comcast.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's bad because I can't switch I have to use comcast, and that sucks but sometimes
Neal Sáles-Griffin: no one's ever going to be happy with what comes out. But at the same time it's getting the job done for you or others, so you're tolerating it, even if you're going to kick and scream along the way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and maybe the kicking and screaming is more of the minority edge case, the super users and less about the masses, who are very happy with the product as it is. So that's why Snow, to answer your question. Talking to people
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who are potential customers of yours, but who have not made a decision to purchase.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: will give you a false sense of confidence about what they would be willing to do so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One example of this that happens in the real world is, many of you have probably administered servants.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You've probably run surveys to understand your audience, and I'll have meetings with founders, and they'll say, Oh, I have a survey with a thousand results, and that everyone says that they would be willing to pay
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for this, or they'd be willing to do this, or they'd be willing to sign up if it had this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Those people are lying to you. You have no idea what they're actually willing to do yet until you ask him to literally pay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Those are hollow words. So I'll tell you. This is someone who learned the hard way
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I started the first coding school. I'll tell you that whole story later. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in doing so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was learning this technique called the lean startup methodology. This is back in 2,009. So you know, 15 years ago.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And so in the the lean, startup methodology, talk about doing customer interviews. And I did solution interviews and problem interviews. And when I did these interviews I talked to people who I thought would be great customers for my coding school.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I met with 25 people. and the vast majority of them said they would be willing to pay $6,000 to sign up for my coding program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I launched my coding program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 0 of those people signed up for that program or anything else 0, even though they all told me that they would. So I but I ended up succeeding. And there's a whole story there. But I just want you to understand, like what people say they're willing to do, and what they actually do are 2 different things. So one thing that I always have people do when they claim that someone is willing to do something. I said, Oh, we'll ask them to do it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you interview someone, and they say, Oh, I'm willing to pay. I'd be willing to pay $30 for this. And you go. Okay, it's ready. Actually. So here's you have your credit card ready. I'll take you $30 right now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then you'll find out the truth. So I love that. You asked that snow is perfect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, I'm gonna blaze through the rest. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: forces, we talked about timeline time, space and time, understanding customer's journey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are the forces that are pushing them through that timeline, or we're slowing them down from making it through to the purchase moment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So space and time is what we're talking about. And right here. These forces are going to be the key to your understanding once you've conducted your interview. So we've kind of trained you all a little bit to do this already. But just so, you know, what happens is when you're dealing with a push. This is the most common one. Someone has a problem that they need to solve.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The example and analogy I like to use is, I have a flat tire
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you have a flat tire, and you're trying to get somewhere. You need to fix the flat tire. That's a problem that's a push that's a necessity to make progress on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Can any one think of what a pull would be as opposed to a push.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if it pushes a flat tire. what might a pull be with our car analogy?
Jeremy Banning: You're trying to get to your daughter's recital
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that that's a push, too. You gotta be at the recital. Bro. I don't want you thinking about that being a good thing for you to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a push.
Jeremy Banning: right? Yeah, sure. So what would a poll be?
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: You are okay with the price.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's that?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You are okay with the tires, for now you're you're okay with the tire? Sure. So what else might be going on with the car? What kind of other pool might, there exists with with a car
Pardo Walter: better performance.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There we go. I like that. Better performance. What does better performance mean on a, on, on, on roads, with speed limits and and legality and and restrictions. What kind of performance are we talking about? Part of?
Pardo Walter: There could be safety measures.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. On the riskier roads, or depending on the sort of terrain that they're planning on traffic absolutely 100. So I'll give you an example. And this is, it'll it'll get dark for a second. But then it'll be okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Last year, during one of my programs, right at the beginning, going into mentor madness. I was in a really bad car accident.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was in an uber in the backseat.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I got t-boned, and I was. It was not good. It was not pretty. I had to pick glass out of my head. It was bleed. Had to go to hospital back. Anyway, I'm okay. Made it through it. Team supported me. We got it done. That being said literally like a week or 2 later, I made the mistake of taking another Uber. I think I was on a meeting with Liliana and another team member, and I was in a Tesla.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the Uber driver almost crashed into another car a week after me, getting a concussion, and like, I haven't got a hospital.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the technology auto stopped the car
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it like before. He crashed the car like force stopped.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I was like, I am taking Ubers and Tesla's forever now. I'm not riding in any other car
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because I didn't trust the person driving, but the technology enabled more like safety and assurance for me. So I say all that to say, my pull example, for y'all, II didn't even know I was gonna use that story. But here we are. Freestial. The pull is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't need a new car. But that new Tesla.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hmm! I'm trying to get that Cybertrick. You know what I'm saying like. So there's a pull. There's like a desire to have a better status or a better version of yourself, or a better lifestyle that you want where you're not burdened by the the struggling moment. But you are excited about that future, you, or a better way of living that can enhance things.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So I heard a couple of you when you were guessing polls, you were saying things that may be put you away from the solution. So that direction of the arrows here is really important.
Lilliana Robinson: So you can't see. I wish we had a whiteboard so you could see. But basically, the push is pushing you toward the new behavior, and the poll is pushing you toward the new behavior. It's just one is stronger than the other. The poll is much more about an attraction or an allure
Lilliana Robinson: so like now we're saying the enticing nature of the safety of a Tesla. I always use Tesla as an example for the social ramifications. So a lot of people at the beginning got Tesla, not for any of its features, but because it was seen as elite, luxurious. You have made it. If you can buy a Tesla in the tech world things like that.
Lilliana Robinson: you have no main issue with your current car. Maybe nothing is even wrong with it, and you just want the Tesla for a much higher reason, much more about attraction.
Lilliana Robinson: The push is, there's an actual problem that is hurting. So I always associate. Push with pain.
Lilliana Robinson: it says, make it better. Something is truly hurting or inhibiting you. That's the difference. But they're both moving you toward a new solution, and although on the regular push, is stronger than pull, sometimes pull can be extremely strong.
Lilliana Robinson: A good example is a new iphones. A lot of us get new iphones without the old one being broken or made obsolete, and it's a lot more about the poll, and it is the push, and I mean they've made a huge business on that. So it's not always that push is stronger. The main thing I want you to understand is that they're both moving you toward the new solution. And the other 2 forces are moving you away from the new solution sticking to status quo.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's very well said, and it reminds me, Liliana, I would love for you to chime in more. Just so you all know the way Liliana and I have become very close as colleagues is. Through this through exactly what we're talking about right now. This is the first time she and I met is when I gave a version of this talk, and it was clear that it resonated with her. And this was like 5 years ago, and we've been applying this framework to help founders succeed ever since.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Brian.
Brian | Circle+: So I'm just trying to make sure that I got what both you and Lilian are saying, is that especially on the pool side? Is it safe to say that there are spirational
Brian | Circle+: in nature?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, that's a great way to say you're aspiring for a better self.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So think about when you sign up for, like a gym membership or or you know, I'm thinking about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know any anything where there's like a dream of being enhanced or life being better. And it's not necessarily coming from
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a major problem in your life, but just more of like a major upgrade that you're thinking of those upgrades that that's the pull force.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and there's usually a combination of them that are at play tune day. You had a question, but I don't know if you wanted to.
Yeah, II kind of changed my mind. The question.
Tunde | Regfyl: But III guess I can ask it. And and I've I've read a lot of books around like entrepreneurship, and and I'm trying to not to conflate a lot of the concepts. And so with this push and pull analogy, what was coming to mind was, when you speak about painkillers and vitamins.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so yeah, I just wanted to know if it was kind of in the same. In this, we we could use the same, I guess, thought process to try to understand, push, and pull. This is the deep work I like this. You're doing it. So, to be clear, I will say that I will talk about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: vitamins, painkillers, and morphine, right? As levels of severity of the problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's tangentially related to what we're talking about, but not precisely so. A vitamin is the thing that you're taking proactively to be better.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A pain killer is something because you're reacting to an immediate pain like I have back pain. I need to go to Cbs and get some, you know, aspirin or something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: morphine is deep seeded, pain
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and need for relief.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Each of you and your businesses today have respective pain levels of severity that you're addressing for your customer
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the tried and true, like kind of reference there, with that analogy tune, day is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: by default. Ideally, you're trying to deal with the morphine level problem because by solving a morphine level problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: people are willing to go to much greater lengths to make progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That isn't always true, or always the case. But in many cases, most cases, I would say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: trying to focus on the higher severity and the greater needs, even if it's a smaller sub group of potential customers, is a great starting place for most founders
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that isn't necessarily tracking directly to the push and pull analogy you're seeing here. The pull forces that we're talking about should very well be at the vitamin or Pain killer stage along with the pushes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a slight nuance to those 2 concepts that I would kind of create a separation.
Lilliana Robinson: I can think of an example, Neil, like for B, twob, let's talk about a specific decision maker stakeholder, maybe a chief innovation officer for many of you selling tech solutions.
Lilliana Robinson: The push would be so that decision maker messed up, and it like it's threatened that they may lose their jobs. So they want your solution to make their job better. And so they don't mess up again and keep their job
Lilliana Robinson: a poll that is equally as strong would be. They want to move up, maybe their Vp. Of innovation right now. They wanna be chief innovation officer that poll can still be a pain killer or more team, depending on how deep the desire is. So their poll, and allure to be better, to achieve that promotion, to be the champion of their team, to bring in this new solution that streamlines their revenue and innovates the company
Lilliana Robinson: if they want that poll and it. The reason it's attractive is because they want to buy a new house for their family, or something like that. There's still not a push there. But the poll, I would say, is at that pain killer or even morphine level. But it's still an allure or an attraction, because they're not facing an immediate like pain in their job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think that's a good way to think about it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: now.
Malc - Xsauce: and this is great. I'll I'll I'm loving. The back and forth is really good. I'm a I'm a qualitative researcher by by trainings. I'm love loving breaking it down. My only question is, is there need at this stage to quantify these trajectories? Right? Is there need to have a sense of of? Yeah, that relationship? I know you break it down, liana. But
Malc - Xsauce: just curious if we need to have numbers behind some of these relative to that morphine, I'm more simply thinking, even like a like or scale, right like are we are, we should be should. That'd be a part of the process of being able to help people understand the choices they have is right. There's there's plenty competitors, plenty of other options. I'll give it a little bit of context. We're in the Fintech space. So our kind of push and pull it's probably always a saving versus investing kind of binary right?
Malc - Xsauce: And so for us, I'm just thinking, given other solutions, other investment options. How do we start to to?
Malc - Xsauce: I'm gonna quantify some of that sensitivity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a great question. We can help you with that. Once we get to the research insights math gets involved.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Math gets involved at the later stages of having these insights, and how you process them, and what the clusters look like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So for sure it does get quantitative, it starts off highly qualitative. Bob is still in the process of teaching me a lot of those quantitative techniques for how to actually like parse these insights further from a research standpoint, Mount. But yeah, for those of you that are trying to go full board. With this there will be room for for more of that, for sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I love the cast.
Valeria Brenner: Would it be okay if I offer some of my insights. So it's my I'm doing. My master's in market research. So it's all about qual and quant, and just like kind of breaking it down like
Valeria Brenner: when typically performing any kind of like consultative aid for a business. What you first do is is the the qualitative part cause. It helps you narrow down that scope of who and what to ask, and the quantitative. Because when you get all those like hard data and numbers, you want them to be as like focused as possible, and qualitative is a great way of like getting it there. So I almost feel as like a funnel where, like
Valeria Brenner: I still do like qual and quant, but I always not always, but typically do qual first and then narrow it down to like what I want to ask about in quant
Neal Sáles-Griffin: love it. Yeah, I'm I'm on the same page with both of you. I will offer a caveat, though
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we cannot research our way to product market fit
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you still have to execute. You still have to screw up. It's messy, it's unproven. That's the very nature of startups. You all are here, not because there's a formula that I can give you to be successful. You're here because there's a very painful, chaotic road to realize what kind of business you need to build in order to execute successful. So just know that we'll research our way through this, and we'll have insights and hints. But at the end of the day. What to expect from this isn't an answer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's a series of of potential pathways to go down
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to find the answer that you want. Matthew.
Matthieu Bonnard: yeah. My question was, can we try to be both push and pull
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and similar on the Fintech space, thinking, you know, the push could be saving money, and the pool is making more money. Can we try to be both, or I appreciate you asking? And it's interesting. I'm gonna offer up a reframe for you, because the context of this slide has nothing to do with us
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and has everything to do with the person you're trying to help. So we're not even talking about, we. Yet we don't know what we want to be. We want to help them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if we understand what's driving them to make progress and success. We can orient ourselves to address the forces that are motivating them. To make progress has nothing to do with us yet.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I hope I'm not being too forward by saying it that way. But that is the point here is that it ain't about us yet. Just changing that language
Neal Sáles-Griffin: will are assuming. This is the person you want to help Matthew, like once you tell me, I know I want to help them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Then we start with humility and we go. Okay, what do we need to become to actually help them make their progress? Not the other way around.
Matthieu Bonnard: Got it.
Lilliana Robinson: Now, if your question, Matthew is like, can someone be hiring us for both push and pull? The answer is, yes, people will have a diversity of reasons that they come to
Lilliana Robinson: hire your product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I can do the last 2 in the office. Okay, so now let's change gears for the last 2 forces. If you could go now let's change gears to what is keeping the customer at the current status quo. So business, as usual on the left side.
Lilliana Robinson: the last 2 are forces that are against progress against them. Making that switch. We'll do habit first. That's traditionally the hardest one to understand out of the 4. But just think of it as the actual title, a habit. It's keeping someone in their current status quo. We are not creatures of change. Humans just like to stay with what they know
Lilliana Robinson: it's about comfort, it's about just accessibility. The greatest example that Neil and I always give is
Lilliana Robinson: changing your operating system. So you're either usually a windows person or a Mac person. Sometimes you change when you're you're like super young and in school, but you're pretty much set in your professional career, and if you do change one of the things that is keeping you from making that change is the habit
Lilliana Robinson: so apple in order to convert windows users have. They have to overcome their habit force. People are very used to the certain shortcuts. They have the certain way that things show up in their operating system, and you now have to make enough of an allure or a push on the top to overcome that negative force in people?
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense on habit. Does anyone have any questions? Okay? And then anxiety much easier to understand. Anxiety is fear. So one of the main reasons we don't want to make changes outside of comfort, level and having to change is fear
Lilliana Robinson: that can be
Lilliana Robinson: mainly price. But I can think of a couple of others.
Lilliana Robinson: Price is the biggest one that we see. So people have a problem. But the price barrier is enough to overcome even the pain of a push or the allure of a pull.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do I know if this will work
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? I've been. I've been failed so many times. I've tried so many other solutions. Is this the one I I'm already. I'm already kind of like nervous about that. I'm unsure, so that that anxious energy that people carry that offers them a hesitation so like whenever a deal slows down. So some of you are doing B twob. Work right. And and you're trying to get a deal over the line. You've got an loi, you know you're talking terms, but you can't quite get the commitment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's likely going to be certain uncertainties or anxieties that the customer has on the other side that they're trying to navigate or deal with before they're ready to commit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's so many different contexts where these forces come into play.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The push and the poor are much easier to discern and ascertain from the interview than the habits and anxieties. All are important.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they all feed in.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, sorry, Neil. A great exercise is in my email to you guys, I asked you to review the mattress interview from Bob messed up. That is a key exercise to be able to understand this framework. So I don't know if we have time. Now, Neil, if you want to just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: go through the forces on that, or we can do it next time. But yeah, at the start of the next session we do cause. Then we'll give people time to think about it or revisit the interview if they didn't get a chance to re listen to it. But energy
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the end of the day is what we're looking for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where there's high energy there is greater insight. So the last part of this equation and then we'll wrap up soon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's dimensions of understanding these forces.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're social, functional, and emotional.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So social is your interaction with others. And how they see you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: functional is, does it actually get the job done? Is it actually accomplishing what it sets out to? And emotional is how it makes you feel
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. Each of these layers to your energy
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with respect to those forces are worth unpacking and understanding for each of your respective customers, because once you dial in what the implications are, different products
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have different levels of severity. For each of these dimensions some are pure function. some could be pure motion
Neal Sáles-Griffin: most, if not all, have some variance of each of them. But keeping these
Neal Sáles-Griffin: dimensions of energy in mind
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as you do your interviews and understand your customers better, are going to allow you to have a level of creative, thoughtful nuance to your product, offering that most of your competitors do not have.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So whenever you realize that someone like some product that you buy something you paid money for. It's almost like they effortlessly understood what your needs were, and you were delighted at the experience because of how thoughtful and successful it was. It didn't even make you think, cause it was so easy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like. Those are the kinds of experiences I like to sign up for.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm trying to think of a good example of a delightful customer experience, but
and not to be too much of a fanboy. But if you ever walk into an apple store
Neal Sáles-Griffin: versus like a micro center or a circus city or a best buy. There's a difference in how it feels
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and who greets you how you interact and and just how it feels to be in that room in that space
Neal Sáles-Griffin: makes you wanna buy on its own. So with that being said like, that's the level of understanding that you need to have about what those forces of progress are. Alright few final things.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: One demand side versus supply side.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're going to hear me say this a lot, because most of you will make this mistake at some point, as we talk and have our one on ones and conversations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The supply side thinking will be a total distraction to our early progress in this program. and what I mean by supply side. Thinking is, I'm not ragging on you, Matthew, but what Matthew said about we
Neal Sáles-Griffin: need to do this or we become that, or what we will offer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It ain't about you yet. so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm going to remove solutions and supply side from our conversations early on, because until we understand who it is we're helping and what they need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It makes no sense for us to talk about ourselves and what we offer. unless you already have customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you have customers, then there's already a symbiotic relationship between demand and supply. And we're just looking to figure out how to enhance it further. So different situations. For you know, different companies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but there's usually a bifurcation of these business units at companies
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at scale. You separate, you know, the the the customer support from the marketing and sales. So the best example and analogy I have of this is, if anyone has ever bought like a high end camera
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like if you've ever purchased like a canon or a nikon, or something like that?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Maybe some of the older folks in the room can relate more, but when you buy one of these products. There's a there's like usually a brochure, and there's branding and packaging to go with it that are
Neal Sáles-Griffin: aesthetically beautiful. It's like really alluring. You're like so excited to have this new device. But what happens when you open the box? You get that manual. and it's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this thick.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And all of a sudden you have all of these little bitty, fine print and text to learn, and specs and instructions and tools, and all these things that become super overwhelming.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's a case study in setting you up to buy, and then dropping you off the deep end afterwards. Once you're my customer, you've already made the purchase. You're not going to go back. You're not going to return it. I have you. Therefore I'll just. I'll just vomit instructions about how to handle this complicated product
Neal Sáles-Griffin: rather than continuing the thoughtfulness in that journey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think the best companies among us are the ones that keep the experience going. Even post purchase, where you're guiding the customer down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Pathway to delight and success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Speaking of business units and scaling those of you that want to still build those 1 billion dollar businesses, I hope, is everybody on this call. I hope you realize that everything we talked about with that timeline
tracks to your companies at scale.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when you have a hundred employees
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you're managing, you know all of these different tools, and you're earning millions in revenue.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That customer journey is still true.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And the company systems that you have map to the timeline that we're trying to teach you at the basic level here
Neal Sáles-Griffin: your marketing and sales systems and teams will be understanding
Neal Sáles-Griffin: both. The first thought, the passive and active looking phases of all the customers you're trying to appeal to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who are those billboards in San Francisco speaking to as you drive around
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you think about the the large scale marketing and branding that happened, the ads, the commercials. The super bowl just passed, and those were a bunch of commercials. When you ask yourself, like, what are the teams of people doing the work to figure out what the message should say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how this should be rendered, how it should be visualized, how it should be offered, and then, last, but not least, customer success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just know that what we're teaching you might seem fairly accessible and even borderline rudimentary.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But at scale it becomes just as important and just as nuanced.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're just trying to prime you all for that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I've alluded to having connections to the people who've taught us this framework and how we go about applying it. One really, really, special moment for me was when I had a chance to go to Harvard Business School to meet Clay Christensen himself along with Bob Mesta, who did the mattress interview. He and Clay
Neal Sáles-Griffin: together kind of co-created the jobs to be done. Framework in the 90 S. So I have one last story to share with you about the origin of that. But beforehand, clay, if you notice in the video is very tall.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think he's like 6 8.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He sadly, a few years ago passed away.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but he and I had a chance to meet before that. and he has this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: humility exercise that he does with people sometimes when he takes photos where he gets down on one knee. And this is a mean play at Harvard. Spending that time together, having a conversation about how to apply jobs to be done in a political context which I'll share more about later in my story, when we're in Tahoe.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But this is the guy who's been doing the mattress interview for you. This is Bob messed up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob is one of my best friends.
I met Bob.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think, 11 years ago, at 37 signals, slash base camp in Chicago. At their office. He was teaching jobs to be done
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to a group of people who had paid, I think, a thousand dollars to have a seat
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to spend the day with him
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there. People have to spend a lot more money now than they did back then to to meet with Bob.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but I wanna tell you a quick story about him, and how he came to meet Clay, because Clay brings the academic side, and Bob brings the like the real practice. So. But before I do that I want you all to tell me
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what these are.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: These are 2 candy bars. We know that. But what candy bars are they
Felipe Acevedo - Goohaus: sneakers?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Which one
Samarth Gupta: the bottom one? I think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't. But I don't know. I've got an eye for such things, I guess. Alright cool, very nice. Okay? So here's the situation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is a very smart person. Okay. So he went to Michigan State. He went to Harvard. He's an engineer. He's from Detroit. So he does a lot of work with like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he's worked with over 3,000 products in his lifetime.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That being said early on, he was doing, I think both automobile industry and maybe some defense contracting work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But a friend of his worked for Mars
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mars is the company that makes Milky Way and stickers, and they're based in New Jersey. So he flashed from Detroit to New Jersey. And his friend basically says, Hey, Bob, we need your help. We're trying to figure out, cause this is in the nineties. So you all might be surprised. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Mars was struggling. and Snickers was on the chopping block
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they were competing with Milky Way, and they were trying to make sense of these 2 products that they were offering and how they were sizing up with each other. So this is the state of the company. I
Neal Sáles-Griffin: hope that this works with the screen share, Liliana. If this doesn't, you let me know. Okay, I'm gonna try to play the state of the company with what they were where the business was at.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's see if this works
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is this working? No.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's just a frozen frame. Oh, man, alright! Let me see if I could fix this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let me see if I can fix this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What about now. No.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, man, it's a commercial. So if you send me the link, I can pull it up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, no, it's not. It's working now. It's working snickers. There you go.
happy peanut! So over chocolate covered mountaintops, and water falls a caramel prancing Newgate in the meadow sings a song of satisfaction to
that's right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what what did we just see? Tell me what you all just saw like, who are we selling to? Who is this for? What's the message.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're on the advertising and marketing team. dropping millions of dollars on a commercial ad campaign
Neal Sáles-Griffin: any thoughts.
Malc - Xsauce: I mean, from quickly. First time seeing it. But obviously he's working in an office right? Looks like it's a pretty boring. He's the only one in there just looking at some of the context. So I feel like it's something about interrupting his day. The song, all that right. It's it's adding, injecting a bit of spontaneity, livelihood into that entire environment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a that's a impressive read. Yeah, III you're saying it better than I ever could. II don't know. Maybe. Yeah. Like, who who do you think the customer is like, what situation are they in?
Malc - Xsauce: It's it's the mundane tedium of office work, right? So it could be anybody right? Make make things more interesting, right? Yeah, with the stickers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Samara, did you want to say something?
Samarth Gupta: No, just gonna say, it looks like he's, you know, in the middle of working might just want to snack like a quick, quick bite.
Matthieu Bonnard: maybe feels like an escape
Neal Sáles-Griffin: way to escape. All right. Alright.
Art Fields - ClubReq: yeah. I was gonna say, the same thing, I mean in office setting, probably in a stressful environment. That's probably his way of like.
Art Fields - ClubReq: you know, coping with that at the moment, like, I need to stress that. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Kevin
Kevin: Vickers gives you energy. You're in that office 2, 3 pm. In the afternoon. You get that afternoon lag
Neal Sáles-Griffin: snickers and peanuts. It gives you the boost you got that from this ad.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I did actually cause he just it's an office setting. So it just looks boring. You take that that snickers bar, and it just kind of I mean, that's my interpretation. But I love this. No, I love this like cause, you know, it's funny because I
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have an inkling of what that might be informed by. But I'll get to that in a second, Christy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: I don't know if I just imagine this, but II saw him
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: experience joy once he kind of like
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: when he heard you know the the guy singing, he appreciation for it. There was this join, you know, joyous moment again against the the boring, you know. Tedious day. And then he became kind of aspirational, like something I don't know he felt like he was. I saw him kind of dreaming of something, his current state.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, so here's the funny thing. With this. This ad didn't work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They experience no material change.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: no success, no real uptick. They continued to struggle.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they were just kind of throwing things at the wall, trying to trying to do. I think what you all are trying to do. You're trying to make sense of what you saw, and you're kind of elaborating a little bit more. And I think some of that elaboration is informed, maybe from some other inputs and your familiarity with snickers. Now, that being said here Bob was with the puzzle
Neal Sáles-Griffin: still struggling. So he leaves New Jersey and goes back to Detroit, and he goes to the airport.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he still got this puzzle on his mind like, Wait, Milky Way snickers bad ads, not growing sales. What do we do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the airport?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Past security? He sees a kiosk.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and lo and behold, he stands by the kiosk, and he observes a person buying the snickers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob, as a kid, was given what's called the 3 Foot rule by his mom.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which means that if he's within 3 feet of someone he can talk to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A strange rule, I know. But Bob proceeds to follow this snickers purchaser to their security gate
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and sit near them. And first, he observes, and he watches this person
Neal Sáles-Griffin: open up their laptop. sit down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: scarf down the snickers and start to work. He asks this person in language that they could understand. what job are you hiring the snickers to do?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The guy says, well. I've got this long flight.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would love to get some shut-eye, so if I can get through my work right now
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and power through it. I think Kevin or someone said that
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  then I'll be able to take a nap on the plane and I get my work done. Now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay, that's cool. What do you think Bob did next?
Art Fields - ClubReq: Sorry to ask, what would you do or set of questions?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He went back to the kiosk
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he kept waiting. He started waiting. He was like, Okay, what do you think he's waiting for
Neal Sáles-Griffin: somebody else to buy the snickers or a milky way?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? So he sits there and he waits. Someone else buys the snickers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then he goes up to the guy working the kiosk. And he's like, Hey, like, do you sell these milky ways
Neal Sáles-Griffin: much, and he's like, no, we sell way more snickers interesting.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So Bob's now trying to figure out where people are buying snickers versus where people are buying milky ways.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So he goes home. and the puzzle's still on his mind, cause he hasn't quite figured it out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he's talking to his wife.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he's like III got this puzzle, this New Jersey Mars Company like snickers, Milky Way thing, who the heck's buying milky ones.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and his wife says. I have a milky way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: She walks into the kitchen, grabs a stool, stands on it, reaches behind like a cabinet of the fridge, and pulls out a bowl where she pulls out her Milky Way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Light bulb comes on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob goes back to look at the data. It turns out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that the hiring criteria for the Milky Way is dramatically different than the hiring criteria for the snickers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And when they actually did the market research after that light bulb they realize that the competitive set for the Milky Way was
Neal Sáles-Griffin: couldn't be more different than the people who were buying the snickers box.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The people buying the Milky Way
Neal Sáles-Griffin: consumed it from anywhere from 10 to 15 min. The consumption time for a snickers bar is 60 to 90 s.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so, to help you understand the contrast, Milky Way was more about a glass of red wine at the end of your day, or an evening run, or brownie, or ice cream, which is why they would put them in the freezer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: whereas on the snicker side there was a functional piece of energy, a boost, red bull apples, coffee, fast food, functional needs
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was more about the hiring criteria for the snickers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that came from that moment when he came home, and he saw his wife with that Milky way, and he decided to look at the data to realize that at least at the time, and this has clearly changed over time. But at the time far more women were purchasing Milky Way than men.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It was fascinating to look at the data and to see that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so that, all being said, we don't give Bob all the credit. The company was smart and adept, and did a lot of cool things, but I'll show you where things landed which may come from a lot of the inferences you made from that first commercial.
What? Yeah.
Applause.
What, Mike? What is your deal? Come on, man, you've been riding me all day you're playing like Betty White out there. That's not what your girlfriend says. Baby snickers
better.
I'm all
that hurt. You're not you when you're hungry, snicker satisfies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Hello! Do you all remember this?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So some of you do. So what ended up happening is this, you're not you and your hungry campaign emerge
Neal Sáles-Griffin: from these insights
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and snickers went on to become the number one candy bar in the world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what ended up happening is is when you touch on the note of what the job is rather than just saying snicker satisfies, and I'm bored at work, and this is good. But instead, you put people in the actual situation where they would be struggling. And they can rel strikes a chord.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the level of clarity that we're trying to get each of you all to during this program. With respect to who you're offering your product to, and how to present it to them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what does the candy bar have to do with your businesses. I know we're building tech startups. We're not building, you know, the candy bar business. There's a lot that comes with it, but very simply the language and processes and the domino effect that lead to the chain of events that undeniably cause the problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's what we're here to help you all figure out. So I share that snicker story and the Clay Mcdonald story because Snickers Mcdonald's jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Major corporations is where this framework came from.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The reason we extrapolated this framework. To apply to startups is because the goal for many of you is to get to the point where you are serving millions of customers all over the world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I want to give you all the context and the insights that exist at that level
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of prominence.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and bring it to the earlier phase of how you build your companies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: few other tips, and I will wrap up with a few questions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: big hires and little hires.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Big hire language is when someone's committing or deciding to sign up for your product or service little higher, all the little things that they consume it. For along the way the best use case example I have for this is duct tape. You hire, duct, tape for one job. You need tape for a reason, and you use it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You keep the duct, tape in your pantry, or in your closet, or somewhere in your house.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and whenever you need tape, you pull it out for another job. That's a little higher.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: As far as my reasoning for using jobs to be done. It helps me distribute decision making better with my team. And because we're in alignment with the job. And we're always asking ourselves, are we in alignment with the job?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We optimize resources to focus on what matters most for the customer for success.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's inspiring to know that you're actually getting the right job done for your customers, and it allows you to more objectively track Kpis and know that you're assessing yourself over what you've determined to be most important to your customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here's the process
Neal Sáles-Griffin: frame the learning question. And when I say, frame the learning question, this is where everyone makes a mistake. They think I mean, what questions are you gonna ask in an interview. You shouldn't know what questions you're going to ask in an interview. There's no script.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll give you a few tips on ways to start the conversation. But there should be no script. The learning question is about what you want to learn from doing the interviews.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the learning question.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You screen recruits. That's your screening criteria exercise. You conduct your interviews, you do your debriefs where you track the forces and timeline.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: then you do an analysis of pattern. This is where we come in to help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is where most people struggle who study jobs to be done through Google, or, you know, by Youtube or through some online class or something. They don't do that part or do it well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we have done this for years. So we will help you analyze patterns from the insights you gained from your interviews to actually extract what you would need to know, to move forward for product development and for sales and marketing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You detail the jobs to be done statements, and then you understand what to build and what to change about your business next. That's our process that we will guide you through in the coming weeks. The reason we do it now and not later. And the reason we don't make it optional
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is because by the time you get to mentor madness we have very clearly learned that if you don't have this figured out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you are going to get eaten alive
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you're gonna waste so much time trying to explain to people what you think your business is about and who your customers are without actually understanding.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're trying to set you up for success with investors we're going to introduce you to, and with lots of experts and people that you might even hire.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who are going to evaluate how well you actually know your business and what you're trying to get done with it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool? I think that's a good time to end. I have more to cover. But I have more time, later case studies, examples, references, more to share about all that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But, Liliana anything else before we conclude.
Lilliana Robinson: Nope, just that this is going to be an immersive. So we have backed back, and we'll also jump into some more stuff for Jtb. Next week. So I know we threw a lot at you right now, but just know we're kind of going to be able to answer questions as we go, and you'll just get a lot more info each day. So just let it marinate tonight and review the mattress interview so we can go over that tomorrow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it's a lot of process to be clear, and it won't make sense until you apply it again yourself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's why we have multiple Revs on this. We had you do it during the application process. We're having you do it right now. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there are founders who are years out of my programs, who I still will do jobs to be done analysis with to this day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll let you know that it never gets old, because, as you acquire more customers, you'll want to have a better understanding of who the new customers are.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Tune day.
Tunde | Regfyl: It was just a quick question on the process. The first step is frame the learning questions. And I just asked, is there a reason why you didn't?
Tunde | Regfyl: We're even as framed the learning outcomes, because that kind of seems what you explained it would be
Tunde | Regfyl: is that a bit of a head fake to let people think about the questions, not from your perspective. Let you think about it from question as from not your perspective, but from perspective of the customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So there's a there's a I want to get the right quote. Maybe you can help me. Clay has a famous quote. Questions create spaces in the brain for answers to fall into.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's all about questions first. So what questions are we trying to answer with this research that we're doing?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's all. I think your framing of the outcome is equally valid.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would say that they're 2 sides of the same coin.
Tunde | Regfyl: Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any other questions or final comments.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, go, Tom.
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Neil. Just a question about the scale of so, conducting the interviews, I became very aware of the fact that I was doing? 1, 2, 3, 4, but maybe if it at 1020, 30, 40, the answers and the path I've taken would have been different. So I'm wondering from your experience what sort of scale you think Le, in terms of sample will show to be effective.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 10. Yeah. If you do 10 with the right screening right here in the right context, you'll and you do them right in their quality interviews. 10 to 15 interviews is M. Pretty much I and I've been. I've been doing this for 10 years. Bob's been doing this for much longer than that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can get meaningful insights from
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that number if you do it right? So that's also why I like it for a startup context.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it's efficient.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're not over researching the problem before we know what we need to know to run an experiment. We get insights, we make experiments and decisions, and we iterate from there. So I'll give you an example of a more prominent company, and I'll share more about them tomorrow when I do my next lecture on this but base camp. I did jobs to be done interviews with 37 singles and base camp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They were already serving millions of users and customers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: After 15 interviews the insights we got led to deep strategic decisions about the company and the product and the pricing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that had a fundamental impact on it going forward.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I've seen it happen at in the Big leagues and it works. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll show you more cool. Thank you. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. Let's get this once and for all. I wanna say your name properly. Merchia.
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): Yeah, amazing. And I will not hold it against you if you do not. I don't expect this whole. This whole class is, gonna say your name properly by the end of the program, I promise you aware I'll make a T-shirt that, says H. Instead of E, or something.
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): I have a very short question. We can answer it next time, if it's too long to answer. There is a difference between our current customers and who, we believe is our ideal customer in the future. Their ideal customer happens to be those performing musicians that are more successful than the ones that we work with right now, and they have a bit of a wall up because of their celebrity status. It's really difficult to interview. So I'm I'm
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): worried about the discrepancy of interviewing the current customers to be done which are not maybe ideal, and I can't really reach the ideal ones at this stage in time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright I would love to help you with that. I don't have an answer right now on the cusp, but I love that. You spoke up about that because each of us have the ideal customer that we'd love to reach or talk to. That we can't quite get to yours is in a more extreme version of that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sounds like a worthy opponent. I'm down
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. I love ending on time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I will stick around happy to do it on core and answer more questions. But I wanna make sure that each of you all have meetings and things and priorities to attend to goal. Live your life.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be well, be happy, live long and prosper. I'll see you tomorrow or Thursday or next week.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, see you tomorrow.